VERCEL_DYNAMIC_ROUTE_FIX.md, before:

# Vercel Dynamic Route 405 Error - Problem & Solution

## Problem Summary

When deploying Next.js applications to Vercel, API routes with dynamic parameters (`[id]`) that use HTTP methods other than GET (such as PUT, POST, PATCH, DELETE) often return **405 Method Not Allowed** errors, even when the route file is correctly configured.

## The Issue in Detail

### What Was Happening:
- API route: `/api/auth/admin/certificates/[id]/route.ts` with PUT handler
- Frontend calling: `PUT /api/auth/admin/certificates/4754e08b-b75d-4eed-b37b-9286fed3a556`
- Response: **405 Method Not Allowed**
- X-Matched-Path in response: `/404` (route not found)

### Root Cause:
Vercel converts Next.js API routes into serverless functions. Dynamic route matching with non-GET HTTP methods doesn't work reliably in this environment. The serverless function fails to match the dynamic parameter, treating it as a 404, which then returns 405 for non-GET methods.

### Why GET Works But PUT/POST/PATCH Doesn't:
- Static routes work perfectly with all HTTP methods
- GET requests to dynamic routes work because Vercel optimizes for GET
- PUT/POST/PATCH/DELETE on dynamic routes fail due to serverless routing limitations

## The Solution

### Instead of Dynamic Routes:
```typescript
// ❌ DOESN'T WORK RELIABLY ON VERCEL
// File: /api/auth/admin/certificates/[id]/route.ts
export async function PUT(request: NextRequest, context: { params: Promise<{ id: string }> }) {
  const params = await context.params;
  const certificateId = params.id; // ID from URL
  // ...
}

// Frontend call:
fetch(`/api/auth/admin/certificates/${certificateId}`, { method: 'PUT', ... })
```

### Use Static Routes with Body Parameters:
```typescript
// ✅ WORKS PERFECTLY ON VERCEL
// File: /api/admin-review-certificate-action/route.ts
export async function POST(request: NextRequest) {
  const body = await request.json();
  const { certificateId } = body; // ID from request body
  // ...
}

// Frontend call:
fetch('/api/admin-review-certificate-action', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: JSON.stringify({ certificateId, ...otherData })
})
```

## Implementation

### 1. Created Static API Route
**File:** `Client/app/api/admin-review-certificate-action/route.ts`
- No `[id]` parameter in the path
- POST method handler
- Certificate ID passed in request body
- All authentication and Supabase logic intact

### 2. Updated Frontend Components
**Files Modified:**
- `Client/components/admin/DoctorApprovals.tsx`
- `Client/components/admin/CertificateApproval.tsx`

**Changes:**
- Changed from: `PUT /api/auth/admin/certificates/${id}`
- Changed to: `POST /api/admin-review-certificate-action`
- Pass `certificateId` in request body instead of URL

## Key Learnings

1. **Vercel Serverless Limitations:**
   - Dynamic routes + non-GET methods = unreliable
   - Static routes work with all HTTP methods

2. **Next.js 15 Considerations:**
   - `params` must be awaited (it's a Promise)
   - Static routes are more reliable than dynamic ones on serverless

3. **Best Practices for Vercel:**
   - Use static routes whenever possible
   - Pass identifiers in request body, not URL
   - Test dynamic routes thoroughly on Vercel before going to production

4. **Working Patterns Observed:**
   - `/api/admin-users` (static) ✅ Works
   - `/api/admin-analytics` (static) ✅ Works
   - `/api/admin-doctor-certificates` (static) ✅ Works
   - `/api/auth/admin/certificates/[id]` (dynamic) ❌ Fails

## Other Affected Areas Fixed

1. **Doctor Approvals** - Certificate approval in admin dashboard
2. **Certificate Approval** - Detailed certificate review in certificates tab
3. **Center Approvals** - Center request approval in admin dashboard
4. **Super Admin Dashboard** - Uses same components, inherited fix

## Testing Checklist

- [x] Doctor approval in admin-dashboard works
- [x] Certificate review in certificates tab works
- [x] Center approval in admin-dashboard works
- [ ] Super admin dashboard certificate approval works
- [ ] All certificate status changes (approve/reject/resubmit) work
- [ ] Proper error handling and user feedback

## Files Modified

```
Client/
├── app/api/
│   ├── admin-review-certificate-action/
│   │   └── route.ts (NEW - static route for certificates)
│   └── admin-center-request-action/
│       └── route.ts (NEW - static route for center requests)
└── components/admin/
    ├── DoctorApprovals.tsx (UPDATED)
    ├── CertificateApproval.tsx (UPDATED)
    └── CenterApprovals.tsx (UPDATED)
```

## Commit History

1. `5972b1b` - Created static API route for certificate approval
2. `[previous]` - Applied fix to CertificateApproval component
3. `[previous]` - Documentation added
4. `[current]` - Fixed center approvals with static route

## Future Recommendations

1. **Audit all dynamic routes** in the application for similar issues
2. **Prefer static routes** for any modification operations (PUT/POST/PATCH/DELETE)
3. **Use dynamic routes only for GET** requests if needed
4. **Test on Vercel preview** before merging to production
5. **Consider API versioning** in route paths for future changes

Commit message:

Fix lab test types 405 error and database constraints - Fixed DELETE using query parameter instead of dynamic route (/api/admin/lab-test-types?id=X) - Added required 'category' field with default value 'general' - Added support for optional fields: name_ku, description, code - Set is_active to true by default for new test types - Updated to use 'name' field for English (not name_en) - Updated VERCEL_DYNAMIC_ROUTE_FIX.md with DELETE query parameter pattern

VERCEL_DYNAMIC_ROUTE_FIX.md, after:

# Vercel Dynamic Route 405 Error - Problem & Solution

## Problem Summary

When deploying Next.js applications to Vercel, API routes with dynamic parameters (`[id]`) that use HTTP methods other than GET (such as PUT, POST, PATCH, DELETE) often return **405 Method Not Allowed** errors, even when the route file is correctly configured.

## The Issue in Detail

### What Was Happening:
- API route: `/api/auth/admin/certificates/[id]/route.ts` with PUT handler
- Frontend calling: `PUT /api/auth/admin/certificates/4754e08b-b75d-4eed-b37b-9286fed3a556`
- Response: **405 Method Not Allowed**
- X-Matched-Path in response: `/404` (route not found)

### Root Cause:
Vercel converts Next.js API routes into serverless functions. Dynamic route matching with non-GET HTTP methods doesn't work reliably in this environment. The serverless function fails to match the dynamic parameter, treating it as a 404, which then returns 405 for non-GET methods.

### Why GET Works But PUT/POST/PATCH Doesn't:
- Static routes work perfectly with all HTTP methods
- GET requests to dynamic routes work because Vercel optimizes for GET
- PUT/POST/PATCH/DELETE on dynamic routes fail due to serverless routing limitations

## The Solution

### Instead of Dynamic Routes:
```typescript
// ❌ DOESN'T WORK RELIABLY ON VERCEL
// File: /api/auth/admin/certificates/[id]/route.ts
export async function PUT(request: NextRequest, context: { params: Promise<{ id: string }> }) {
  const params = await context.params;
  const certificateId = params.id; // ID from URL
  // ...
}

// Frontend call:
fetch(`/api/auth/admin/certificates/${certificateId}`, { method: 'PUT', ... })
```

### Use Static Routes with Body Parameters:
```typescript
// ✅ WORKS PERFECTLY ON VERCEL
// File: /api/admin-review-certificate-action/route.ts
export async function POST(request: NextRequest) {
  const body = await request.json();
  const { certificateId } = body; // ID from request body
  // ...
}

// Frontend call:
fetch('/api/admin-review-certificate-action', {
  method: 'POST',
  body: JSON.stringify({ certificateId, ...otherData })
})
```

## Implementation

### 1. Created Static API Route
**File:** `Client/app/api/admin-review-certificate-action/route.ts`
- No `[id]` parameter in the path
- POST method handler
- Certificate ID passed in request body
- All authentication and Supabase logic intact

### 2. Updated Frontend Components
**Files Modified:**
- `Client/components/admin/DoctorApprovals.tsx`
- `Client/components/admin/CertificateApproval.tsx`

**Changes:**
- Changed from: `PUT /api/auth/admin/certificates/${id}`
- Changed to: `POST /api/admin-review-certificate-action`
- Pass `certificateId` in request body instead of URL

## Key Learnings

1. **Vercel Serverless Limitations:**
   - Dynamic routes + non-GET methods = unreliable
   - Static routes work with all HTTP methods

2. **Next.js 15 Considerations:**
   - `params` must be awaited (it's a Promise)
   - Static routes are more reliable than dynamic ones on serverless

3. **Best Practices for Vercel:**
   - Use static routes whenever possible
   - Pass identifiers in request body, not URL
   - Test dynamic routes thoroughly on Vercel before going to production

4. **Working Patterns Observed:**
   - `/api/admin-users` (static) ✅ Works
   - `/api/admin-analytics` (static) ✅ Works
   - `/api/admin-doctor-certificates` (static) ✅ Works
   - `/api/auth/admin/certificates/[id]` (dynamic) ❌ Fails

## Other Affected Areas Fixed

1. **Doctor Approvals** - Certificate approval in admin dashboard
2. **Certificate Approval** - Detailed certificate review in certificates tab
3. **Center Approvals** - Center request approval in admin dashboard
4. **Lab Test Types** - Delete lab test types in admin dashboard
5. **Super Admin Dashboard** - Uses same components, inherited fix

## Alternative Solution for DELETE

For DELETE operations, instead of creating a separate static route, you can use **query parameters**:

```typescript
// ❌ DOESN'T WORK ON VERCEL
DELETE /api/admin/lab-test-types/[id]

// ✅ WORKS ON VERCEL
DELETE /api/admin/lab-test-types?id={id}
```

This approach works because:
- The route is static (/api/admin/lab-test-types)
- The ID is passed as a query parameter, not in the path
- Vercel can properly match and route the request

## Testing Checklist

- [x] Doctor approval in admin-dashboard works
- [x] Certificate review in certificates tab works
- [x] Center approval in admin-dashboard works
- [x] Lab test types delete works
- [x] Lab test types create works
- [ ] Super admin dashboard certificate approval works
- [ ] All certificate status changes (approve/reject/resubmit) work
- [ ] Proper error handling and user feedback

## Files Modified

```
Client/
├── app/api/
│   ├── admin-review-certificate-action/
│   │   └── route.ts (NEW - static route for certificates)
│   └── admin-center-request-action/
│       └── route.ts (NEW - static route for center requests)
└── components/admin/
    ├── DoctorApprovals.tsx (UPDATED)
    ├── CertificateApproval.tsx (UPDATED)
    └── CenterApprovals.tsx (UPDATED)
```

## Commit History

1. `5972b1b` - Created static API route for certificate approval
2. `[previous]` - Applied fix to CertificateApproval component
3. `[previous]` - Documentation added
4. `[current]` - Fixed center approvals with static route

## Future Recommendations

1. **Audit all dynamic routes** in the application for similar issues
2. **Prefer static routes** for any modification operations (PUT/POST/PATCH/DELETE)
3. **Use dynamic routes only for GET** requests if needed
4. **Test on Vercel preview** before merging to production
5. **Consider API versioning** in route paths for future changes
